# Credit-Card-Fraud-using-Classification

Fraud detection is a set of activities that are taken to prevent money or property from being obtained through false pretenses.

Fraud can be committed in different ways and different settings. For example, fraud can be committed in banking, insurance, government and healthcare sectors.

A common type of banking fraud is customer account takeover. This is when someone illegally gains access to a victim’s bank account using bots. Other examples of fraud in banking include the use of malicious applications, the use of false identities, money laundering, credit card fraud and mobile fraud.

Insurance fraud includes premium diversion fraud, which is the embezzlement of insurance premiums, or free churning, which is excessive trading by a stockbroker to maximize commissions. Other forms of insurance fraud include asset diversion, workers’ compensation fraud, car accident fraud, stolen or damaged car fraud, and house fire fraud. The motive behind all insurance fraud is financial profits.

Government fraud is committing fraud against federal agencies such as the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Department of Transportation, Department of Education or Department of Energy. Types of government fraud include billing for unnecessary procedures, overcharging for items that cost less, providing old equipment when billing for new equipment and reporting hours worked for a worker that does not exist.

Healthcare fraud includes drug fraud and medical fraud, as well as insurance fraud. Healthcare fraud is committed when someone defrauds an insurer or government health care program.

# Project Detail
This project classifies the records of transaction data as a fraudulent transaction or a real transaction. The model makes use of synthetic transaction records generated by CTGAN and attempts to classify the original credit card transaction data, which is a highly imbalanced dataset that only contains 492 fraudulent records.
